[FAB-18111] Add docs for DevMode using new lifecycle (#1704)
hyperledger/fabric: docs/source/peer-chaincode-devmode.rst

The above starts the orderer with the SampleDevModeSolo profile.

Start the peer in dev mode
--------------------------

::

    CORE_PEER_CHAINCODELISTENADDRESS=0.0.0.0:7052 peer node start --peer-chaincodedev=true

The above command starts the peer using the default MSP.
``--peer-chaincodedev=true`` puts it in “dev” mode.

Create channel ch1
---------------------------

Generate the transactions for creating the channels using the ``configtxgen``
tool with the SampleSingleMSPChannel profile.

::

   configtxgen -channelID ch1 -outputCreateChannelTx ch1.tx -profile SampleSingleMSPChannel -configPath $FABRIC_CFG_PATH

::

    peer channel create -o 127.0.0.1:7050 -c ch1 -f ch1.tx

The above command assumes the orderer is reachable at ``127.0.0.1:7050``. The orderer
is now tracking channel ch1 with the default configuration.

::

    peer channel join -b ch1.block

The peer has now joined channel ch1.

Build the chaincode
-----------------------------

The `simple` chaincode from the `integration/chaincode` directory is used here as an example.

::
    go build -o simpleChaincode ./integration/chaincode/simple/cmd
::

Start the chaincode
-------------------

::

>     CORE_CHAINCODE_LOGLEVEL=debug CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=192.168.0.7:7052 CORE_PEER_TLS_ENABLED=false CORE_CHAINCODE_ID_NAME=mycc:1.0 ./simpleChaincode -peer.address 192.168.0.7:7052

Reviewer: Is the peer address here and below what it should be for a doc? Shouldn't these be 127.0.0.1:[port]?

Reviewer 2: Yes it should be localhost or the auto detected peer address shown in the logs when the peer starts. 🔧

Reviewer: I still see 192.168.0.7:<port> in both places. Did that accidentally not get added to your commit?

Reviewer 2: Yes should be updated now.

> This starts the chaincode and connects it to the peer. Look at the peer and chaincode logs to determine if the registration was successful.

Reviewer: Dereck mentioned that it's not the peer AND chaincode logs that will indicate if the devmode chaincode registration was successful. @stephyee do you know where it shows up?

Reviewer 2: @wlahti It only shows in the peer logs when debug logging is enabled

Reviewer: Good to know. Can we update the doc to correctly reflect that?

- Note: When DevMode is enabled, `CORE_CHAINCODE_ID_NAME` must be set to `{ChaincodeName}:{ChaincodeVersion}`; hence, for this example, it is set to `mycc:1.0` here. Otherwise, the peer will not be able to find the chaincode.

Approve and commit the chaincode definition
--------------------------------------

::
    peer lifecycle chaincode approveformyorg  -o 127.0.0.1:7050 --channelID ch1 --name mycc --version 1.0 --sequence 1 --init-required --signature-policy "OR ('SampleOrg.member')" --package-id mycc:1.0
::

::
    peer lifecycle chaincode checkcommitreadiness -o 127.0.0.1:7050 --channelID ch1 --name mycc --version 1.0 --sequence 1 --init-required --signature-policy "OR ('SampleOrg.member')"

>     peer lifecycle chaincode commit -o 127.0.0.1:7050 --channelID ch1 --name mycc --version 1.0 --sequence 1 --init-required --signature-policy "OR ('SampleOrg.member')" --peerAddresses 192.168.0.7:7051

Reviewer: See previous peer address comment.

Reviewer 2: Se previous comment ^^.

::

> The above steps follow the new lifecycle commands which approve chaincode in both channels, and commit the chaincode to the ledger. At this point, you can invoke and query the chaincode as usual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above steps utilize the new lifecycle commands to approve the chaincode definition and then commit the chaincode definition to the ledger. At this point, you can invoke and query the chaincode as usual.
```
Not sure where "both channels" came from. :)

Reviewer 2: 🧹  I'm sure it came from the 1.4 doc on this same topic

Using dev mode
==============

Normally chaincodes are started and maintained by the peer. However in “dev”
mode, chaincode is built and started by the user. This mode is useful
during the chaincode development phase for rapid code/build/run/debug cycle
turnaround.

- Note: Make sure the peer is not using TLS when running in dev mode.

All commands are executed from the ``fabric`` folder.

Setup environment
-----------------
Build binaries for orderer, peer and configtxgen.
::
    make orderer peer configtxgen
::

> Setup PATH environment variable to include orderer and peer binaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the PATH environment variable to include orderer and peer binaries.
```

Author: fixed.

::
    export PATH=$(pwd)/build/bin:$PATH
::

> Setup FABRIC_CFG_PATH to point at sampleconfig.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the FABRIC_CFG_PATH environment variable to point to the sampleconfig folder.
```

Author: fixed.

::
    export FABRIC_CFG_PATH=$(pwd)/sampleconfig

::

> Generate genesisblock.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generate the genesis block.
```
Nit

Author: fixed.

::
    configtxgen -profile SampleDevModeSolo -channelID syschannel -outputBlock genesisblock -configPath $FABRIC_CFG_PATH -outputBlock $(pwd)/sampleconfig/genesisblock
::

Start the orderer
-----------------

::

    ORDERER_GENERAL_GENESISPROFILE=SampleDevModeSolo orderer

The above starts the orderer with the SampleDevModeSolo profile.

Start the peer in dev mode
--------------------------

::

    CORE_PEER_CHAINCODELISTENADDRESS=0.0.0.0:7052 peer node start --peer-chaincodedev=true

The above command starts the peer using the default MSP.

> The ``--peer-chaincodedev=true`` puts it in “dev” mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``--peer-chaincodedev=true`` puts it in “dev” mode.
```

Author: fixed.

Create channel ch1
---------------------------

Generate the transactions for creating the channels using the ``configtxgen``
tool with the SampleSingleMSPChannel profile.

::

   configtxgen -channelID ch1 -outputCreateChannelTx ch1.tx -profile SampleSingleMSPChannel -configPath $FABRIC_CFG_PATH

::

    peer channel create -o 127.0.0.1:7050 -c ch1 -f ch1.tx

The above command assumes the orderer is reachable at ``127.0.0.1:7050``. The orderer
is now tracking channel ch1 with the default configuration.

::

    peer channel join -b ch1.block

The peer has now joined channel ch1.

Build the chaincode
-----------------------------

The `simple` chaincode from the `integration/chaincode` directory is used here as an example.

::
    go build -o simpleChaincode ./integration/chaincode/simple/cmd
::

Start the chaincode
-------------------

::
    CORE_CHAINCODE_LOGLEVEL=debug CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=192.168.0.7:7052 CORE_PEER_TLS_ENABLED=false CORE_CHAINCODE_ID_NAME=mycc:1.0 ./simpleChaincode -peer.address 192.168.0.7:7052

> The chaincode is started with the peer and chaincode logs indicating successful registration with the peer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This starts the chaincode and connects it to the peer. Look at the peer and chaincode logs to determine if the registration was successful. 
```
Not exactly sure on the best wording and if this conveys what you're going for, but just a suggestion. Also, maybe we should include an example of the log message?

Author: changes applied, just one minor thing, with provided peer logging and chaincode, there will be no log that displayed on both peer and chaincode when starting the chaincode.

Reviewer: I was just going with what your previous text said, "peer AND chaincode logs." :) Definitely correct it so it only mentions the log you had in mind.

> - Note: The `CORE_CHAINCODE_ID_NAME` is set to `mycc:1.0` here, as when DevMode is enabled, lifecycle will automatically looking for launched chaincode with chaincodeID as `{ChaincodeName}:{ChaincodeVersion}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Note: When DevMode is enabled, `CORE_CHAINCODE_ID_NAME` must be set to `{ChaincodeName}:{ChaincodeVersion}`; hence, for this example, it is set to `mycc:1.0` here. Otherwise, the peer will not be able to find the chaincode.
```
Or something like this. :)

Author: fixed.

> Approve chaincode and commit chaincode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Approve and commit the chaincode definition
```

Author: fixed.

--------------------------------------

::

>     peer lifecycle chaincode approveformyorg  -o 127.0.0.1:7050 --channelID ch1 --name mycc --version 1.0 --sequence 1 --init-required --signature-policy "OR ('Org1MSP.peer','Org2MSP.peer')" --package-id {package-id}

Reviewer: We no longer want to reference the package id here, right?

Reviewer: One other thing: since this doc uses the SampleDevModeSolo and SampleSingleMSPChannel profiles from sampleconfig/configtx.yaml, shouldn't the org throughout this doc be SampleOrg?

Author: agree, fixed. thanks

::

::
    peer lifecycle chaincode checkcommitreadiness -o 127.0.0.1:7050 --channelID ch1 --name mycc --version 1.0 --sequence 1 --init-required --signature-policy "OR ('Org1MSP.peer','Org2MSP.peer')"

    peer lifecycle chaincode commit -o 127.0.0.1:7050 --channelID ch1 --name mycc --version 1.0 --sequence 1 --init-required --signature-policy "OR ('Org1MSP.peer','Org2MSP.peer')" --peerAddresses 192.168.0.7:7051
::

The above steps follow the new lifecycle commands which approve chaincode in both channels, and commit the chaincode to the ledger.

> 

Reviewer: Should there be a final line that mentions something like "at this point, you can invoke/query the chaincode as usual"? Seems like the doc just kinda ends here without actually talking about the user interacting with the chaincode.

Author: fixed.

Using dev mode
==============

> Normally chaincodes are started and maintained by peer. However in “dev”
> mode, chaincode is built and started by the user. This mode is useful
> during chaincode development phase for rapid code/build/run/debug cycle
> turnaround.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Normally chaincodes are started and maintained by the peer. However in “dev”
mode, chaincode is built and started by the user. This mode is useful
during the chaincode development phase for rapid code/build/run/debug cycle
turnaround.
```

Author: done.

> To keep this a realistic “dev” environment, we are going to keep it “out

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure what this is trying to convey, but I don't think it adds anything to the doc and can be removed, i.e., what is "out-of-the-box" vs "not-out-of-the-box"

Author: done.

of the box”.

> - Note: Make sure peer is not using TLS when running in dev mode.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Note: Make sure the peer is not using TLS when running in dev mode.
```

Author: done.

All commands are executed from the ``fabric`` folder.

Setup environment
-----------------
Build binaries for orderer, peer and configtxgen.
::
    make orderer peer configtxgen
::

Setup PATH environment variable to include orderer and peer binaries.
::

>     cd ./build/bin/; export PATH=$PATH:$(pwd)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   export PATH=$(pwd)/build/bin:$PATH
```

This should be reversed, otherwise existing binaries on the path would take precedent. Also no reason to do the cd, just append it, makes subsequent commands clearer

Author: done.

::

Setup FABRIC_CFG_PATH to point at sampleconfig.
::

>     cd ./sampleconfig/; export FABRIC_CFG_PATH=$(pwd)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    export FABRIC_CFG_PATH=$(pwd)/sampleconfig
```

Author: done.

::

Generate genesisblock.
::

>     cd $FABRIC_CFG_PATH; configtxgen -profile SampleDevModeSolo -channelID syschannel -outputBlock genesisblock

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   configtxgen -profile SampleDevModeSolo -channelID syschannel -outputBlock genesisblock -configPath $FABRIC_CFG_PATH -outputBlock $(pwd)/sampleconfig/genesisblock
```

Author: done.

::

Start the orderer
-----------------

::

    ORDERER_GENERAL_GENESISPROFILE=SampleDevModeSolo orderer

The above starts the orderer with the SampleDevModeSolo profile.

Start the peer in dev mode
--------------------------

::

    CORE_PEER_CHAINCODELISTENADDRESS=0.0.0.0:7052 peer node start --peer-chaincodedev=true

The above command starts the peer using the default MSP.
The ``--peer-chaincodedev=true`` puts it in “dev” mode.

> Create channels ch1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create channel ch1
```

Author: done.

---------------------------

Generate the transactions for creating the channels using the ``configtxgen``
tool with the SampleSingleMSPChannel profile.

::

>    configtxgen -channelID ch1 -outputCreateChannelTx ch1.tx -profile SampleSingleMSPChannel

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   configtxgen -channelID ch1 -outputCreateChannelTx ch1.tx -profile SampleSingleMSPChannel -configPath $FABRIC_CFG_PATH
```

Author: done.

::

    peer channel create -o 127.0.0.1:7050 -c ch1 -f ch1.tx

> Above assumes orderer is reachable on ``127.0.0.1:7050``. The orderer
> now is tracking channels ch1 for the default configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The above command assumes the orderer is reachable at ``127.0.0.1:7050``. The orderer
is now tracking channel ch1 with the default configuration.
```

Author: done.

::

    peer channel join -b ch1.block

> The peer has now joined channels ch1.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The peer has now joined channel ch1.
```

Author: done.

Build, Package and Install chaincode
-----------------------------

> Simple chaincode from integration test is used here as an example.
> In order to use the new lifecycle, chaincode need to be packaged and installed before launching.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `simple` chaincode from the `integration/chaincode` directory is used here as an example.
In order to use the new lifecycle, the chaincode needs to be packaged and installed before launching.
```

Author: done.

::

>     cd integration/chaincode/simple/cmd
>     go build -o simpleChaincode
>     peer lifecycle chaincode package simple.tar.gz --path $(pwd) --lang golang --label myccv1
>     peer lifecycle chaincode install simple.tar.gz --peerAddresses 192.168.0.7:7051

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    go build -o simpleChaincode ./integration/chaincode/simple
    peer lifecycle chaincode package simple.tar.gz --path $(pwd)/integration/chaincode/simple --lang golang --label myccv1
    peer lifecycle chaincode install simple.tar.gz --peerAddresses 192.168.0.7:7051
```

Author: done.

::

> In order to launch and approve chaincode, chaincodeID need to be obtained using `peer lifecycle chaincode queryinstalled` command. With successful
> packaing and installing chaincode, `queryinstalled` command will return `Package ID: myccv1:{chaincode hash}, Label: myccv1`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to launch and approve the chaincode, the chaincodeID needs to be obtained using the `peer lifecycle chaincode queryinstalled` command. With a successful
packaging and installation of chaincode, the `queryinstalled` command will return `Package ID: myccv1:{chaincode hash}, Label: myccv1`
```

Author: done.

::
    peer lifecycle chaincode queryinstalled --peerAddresses 192.168.0.7:7051
::

Start the chaincode
-------------------

::
    CORE_CHAINCODE_LOGLEVEL=debug CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=192.168.0.7:7052 CORE_PEER_TLS_ENABLED=false CORE_CHAINCODE_ID_NAME={package-id} ./simpleChaincode -peer.address 192.168.0.7:7052

> The chaincode is started with peer and chaincode logs indicating successful registration with the peer.
> Note that `package-id` here is the packageID that obtained from previous `peer lifecycle chaincode queryinstalled` command. In addition, 
> at this stage, the chaincode is not associated with any channel. This is done in subsequent steps using the `lifecycle chaincode commit` command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The chaincode is started with the peer and chaincode logs indicating successful registration with the peer.
Note that the `package-id` here is the same packageID that was obtained from the previous `peer lifecycle chaincode queryinstalled` command. In addition, 
at this stage, the chaincode is not associated with any channel. This is done in subsequent steps using the `lifecycle chaincode commit` command.
```

Author: done.

Approve chaincode and commit chaincode
--------------------------------------

::
    peer lifecycle chaincode approveformyorg  -o 127.0.0.1:7050 --channelID ch1 --name myccv1 --version 1.0 --sequence 1 --init-required --signature-policy "OR ('Org1MSP.peer','Org2MSP.peer')" --package-id {package-id}
::

::
    peer lifecycle chaincode checkcommitreadiness -o 127.0.0.1:7050 --channelID ch1 --name myccv1 --version 1.0 --sequence 1 --init-required --signature-policy "OR ('Org1MSP.peer','Org2MSP.peer')"

    peer lifecycle chaincode commit -o 127.0.0.1:7050 --channelID ch1 --name myccv1 --version 1.0 --sequence 1 --init-required --signature-policy "OR ('Org1MSP.peer','Org2MSP.peer')" --peerAddresses 192.168.0.7:7051
::

> The above steps follows new lifecycel steps which approves chaincode in both channels, and commit chaincode to the ledger.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The above steps follow the new lifecycle commands which approve chaincode in both channels, and commit the chaincode to the ledger.
```

Author: done.
